content/about.md, before:

---
title: What is going on in my life right now?
description: Welcome to get to know me more. On this page you will comprehensively find everything that is important to me at the moment in my professional and personal life.
language: en
---

## Location:

[Nokia, Finland](https://goo.gl/maps/k437LzVrvYzhUvXV9 "Google Maps")

## Professional title:

Entrepreneur  
Full Stack Developer  
Chief executive officer  

## Professional life:

Full stack web developer who is passionate about making websites and web stores better, faster and easier to update.

Since beginning my journey as an entrepreneur over seven years ago, I've done remote work for businesses, developed hundreds of customer projects, and created booking calendars and my own ecommerce platform. Also implemented various payment interfaces and REST APIs. Always ready for new challenges.

Technologies I enjoy working with include JavaScript, Nuxt, Vue, React, TypeScript, PHP and MariaDB. Mostly using ProcessWire and WordPress CMS.

Designing and developing experiences that make people's lives simpler. A focus on simplicity, speed, usability, easy update and delight. My goal is to surpass myself and my customers. When the customer feels they have received more than they originally ordered, I succeed.

- Problem solver, React and WordPress Developer at [Quux Oy](https://quux.fi/).
- Full Stack Developer and owner at [Tuspe Design Oy](https://tuspe.com/).
- Developer, technical customer support and shareholder at [Ratsukko Solutions Oy](https://www.ratsukko.com/).
- Full Stack Developer, CEO and shareholder at [Dataline Group Oy](https://www.dataline.fi/).
- Member of the Central Electoral Commission of the City of Nokia from 2021 to 2025.
- Participating in the open source revolution on [Github](https://github.com/timoanttila?tab=repositories).
- Developing and maintaining awesome sport platform and several different webshops.
- Maintaining many servers and being responsible for the security and backup of clients' websites.

## Personal life:

- Learning how to live a real life.
- Interested in artificial intelligence, the wonders of technology, and human behavior.
- An avid visitor as well as a volunteer at many events.
- Investing in stocks, funds and virtual currencies ([Shareville](https://shareville.fi/jasenet/timo-anttila/portfolios) / [eToro](https://www.etoro.com/people/timoanttila)).
- Watching too many movies and series ([Trakt](https://trakt.tv/users/timoanttila)).
- Playing the mobile game Wild Rift ([PahaPoro#EUNE](https://eu.wildstats.gg/en/profile/MF2y2ctyhODhHmcTObwS)).
- Proud father of border collie Deli.
- Nature lover.

## Technologies / tools:

- PHP, Javascript, Vue, Nuxt, Svelte Kit, React, TypeScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS
- MySQL / MariaDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MongoDB
- NodeJS + Express, Apache2, NGINX
- ProcessWire, WordPress, Drupal
- Visual Studio Code, Github, Gitlab, Postman API Platform, Fork
- Cloudflare, Joker, Namecheap, Traficom domains
- Slack, Google Chat, Google Meets, Microsoft Teams

## Languages:

- Finnish, English

## Contact:

- <a href="tel:+358407746121" rel="nofollow">+358 40 774 6121</a>
- <a href="mailto:moro@tuspe.com" rel="nofollow">moro@tuspe.com</a>

## Find me around the web:

- https://tuspe.com
- https://github.com/timoanttila
- [https://twitter.com/_timoanttila](https://twitter.com/_timoanttila/with_replies)
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/anttilatimo/
- https://github.com/TuspeDesign
- https://wakatime.com/@timoanttila
- https://codestats.net/users/timoanttila
- https://trakt.tv/users/timoanttila
- https://www.goodreads.com/timoanttila
- https://eu.wildstats.gg/en/profile/MF2y2ctyhODhHmcTObwS

## Now?

Now page is a place to tell where my focus is right now in my professional and personal life. If activities or priorities change, I'll update this page accordingly.
Inspired by [nownownow project](https://nownownow.com/).

Commit message:

v5.0.0
Signed-off-by: Timo Anttila <code@tuspe.com>

content/about.md, after:

---
title: What is going on in my life right now?
description: Welcome to getting to know me more. On this page, you will comprehensively find everything that is important to me at the moment in my professional and personal life.
language: en
---

Welcome to getting to know me more. On this page, you will comprehensively find everything that is important to me at the moment in my professional and personal life. If activities or priorities change, I'll update this page accordingly.

## Location:

[Nokia, Finland](https://goo.gl/maps/k437LzVrvYzhUvXV9 'Google Maps')

## Professional title:

Entrepreneur  
Full Stack Developer  
Chief executive officer

## Professional life:

Designing and developing experiences that make people's lives simpler. Full-stack web developer who is passionate about making websites and web stores better, faster, and easier to update.

Since beginning my journey as an entrepreneur over seven years ago, I've done remote work for businesses, developed hundreds of customer projects, and created booking calendars and my own e-commerce platform. Also implemented various payment interfaces and REST APIs. Always ready for new challenges.

Technologies I enjoy working with include JavaScript, Nuxt, Vue, React, TypeScript, PHP, Nodejs and MariaDB. ProcessWire and WordPress CMS are frequently used. My main job is developing React webapps.

A focus on simplicity, speed, usability, easy updating, and delight. My goal is to surpass myself and my customers. When the customer feels they have received more than they originally ordered, I succeed.

- Problem solver, React and WordPress Developer at [Quux Oy](https://quux.fi/).
- Full Stack Developer and owner at [Tuspe Design Oy](https://tuspe.com/).
- Full Stack Developer and shareholder at [Ratsukko Solutions Oy](https://www.ratsukko.com/).
- Full Stack Developer, CEO and shareholder at [Dataline Group Oy](https://www.dataline.fi/).
- Member of the Central Electoral Commission of the City of Nokia from 2021 to 2025.
- Developing and maintaining my own sports and e-commerce platforms.
- Maintaining many servers and being responsible for the security and backup of clients' websites.

## Personal life:

- Dating a Kenyan woman and thinking about moving to Kenya temporarily.
- Interested in artificial intelligence, the wonders of technology, and human behavior.
- Investing in stocks, funds, and coins ([eToro](https://www.etoro.com/people/timoanttila) / [Shareville](https://shareville.fi/jasenet/timo-anttila/portfolios)).
- Watching too many movies and series ([Trakt](https://trakt.tv/users/timoanttila)).
- Proud father of Deli, a border collie
- Equal friendship-volunteer ([Yhdenvertainen kaveritoiminta](https://www.tukiliitto.fi/toiminta/yhdenvertainen-kaveritoiminta/)).

- Nature lover.

## Technologies / tools:

- PHP, Javascript, Vue, Nuxt, Svelte Kit, React, TypeScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS
- MySQL / MariaDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MongoDB
- NodeJS + Express, Apache2, NGINX
- ProcessWire, WordPress, Drupal
- Visual Studio Code, Github, Gitlab, Postman API Platform
- Cloudflare, Joker, Namecheap, Traficom domains
- Slack, Google Chat, Google Meets, Microsoft Teams

## Languages:

- Finnish, English

## Find me around the web:

- https://github.com/timoanttila
- [https://twitter.com/\_timoanttila](https://twitter.com/_timoanttila/with_replies)
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/anttilatimo/
- https://www.etoro.com/people/timoanttila
- https://trakt.tv/users/timoanttila
- https://www.goodreads.com/timoanttila
- https://tuspe.com
- https://github.com/TuspeDesign
- https://wakatime.com/@timoanttila
- https://codestats.net/users/timoanttila

## Recomended books:

- Surrounded by Idiots: The four types of human behavior and how to effectively communicate with each in business (and in life)
- Never Split the Difference: Negotiating As If Your Life Depended On It
